Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. programming languages are the tools we use to write instructions for computers to follow.git A programming language is a vocabulary and set of grammatical rules for instructing a computer or computing device to perform specific tasks.




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.JDK stands for Java Development Kit. It is the tool necessary to compile, document and package Java programs.It contains JRE and development tools.
JRE stands for Java Runtime Environment and refers to a runtime environment in which Java bytecode can be executed.
JRE is an implementation of the JVM which physically exists. Development tools: Java development tools include different tools such as: javac (a compiler),
java ( launcher for Java applications), javap (class file disassembler), jdb (java debugger), and others.
Java compiler (javac) is used to convert Java text file into an executable program. Java text segment converted
into bytecode after compilation which carries the .class extension. Java interpreter or loader converts each program statement into the machine code. This includes source code  pre-compiled code, and scripts. The difference from a compiler is that compilers will convert the code into machine
code (create an exe) before program run and interpreters convert code into machine code when the program is run. Java archiver (jar) is the most popular after javac is the jar tool. The jar file is nothing but a full pack of Java classes. After creating the .class files, you can put them together in a .jar, which compresses and structures them in a predictable fashion.






What is IDE?
A.An IDE, which stands for Integrated Development Environment, is a program that helps write software. An IDE helps also organize software projects, write code, test and debug.



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.
Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA, JDeveloper.



Explain the entire java life cycle.here are three main stages in the life cycle of a java program, which are:
Editing the program
Compiling the source code
Executing the byte code
First, the user starts with typing the program in a text-editor, like notepad or such. After completing editing of the program, the file needs to be saved with .java extension.
Second step is compilation. The input to the compiler is Java source code .java. The output of the compiler is bytecode.
The file which is generated after compilation is .class file.
Last step is execution. The bytecode generated by the compiler will be executed by Java Virtual Machine (JVM). Input to the JVM is bytecode and output is machine code (0’s and 1’s) which will be executed by the CPU of the local machine.

what is class? A class is a blueprint or representation of a real-world object.

What is object?  an object is a real-world entity that has states and behaviors. Any object can be described using its attributes/characteristics and methods/behaviors that object can perform.

What is the entry point of an application?An entry point is a point in a program where the execution of a program begins, and where the program has access to command line arguments, the main method is the entry point of a Java application, which is public static void main(String[])

Why main is static?the main() method is the starting point from where the compiler starts program execution. Because of that Java main() method is always static, so the compiler can call it without the creation of an object or before the creation of an object of the class.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?which is stored in java.lang package.

What is difference between path and classpath variables? PATH is an environment variable. It is used by operating system to find the executable files (.exe) or in other words java binaries (java or javac), and CLASSPATH is also an environment variable used by Application ClassLoader to locate
and load the .class files(compiled java bytecodes).In order to set PATH,  JDK_HOME/bin directory needs to be included in PATH environment variable.In order to set CLASSPATH, we need to include all the directories which contain .class files and jar files  as  required by the application.
 PATH environment variable once set, its value cannot be overridden via java settings. However, CLASSPATH environment variable can be overridden by using the command line option -cp or -classpath to both javac and java commands.
PATH is used by operating system(Windows and Linux) to execute command in the shell or to find any binary, when CLASSPATH is only used by Application CLASSLOADER to load class files.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?abstract keyword is used to create an abstract class, and it also can be used with methods; whereas interface keyword
is used to create interface, and cannot be used with methods.Subclasses use extends keyword to extend an abstract class, and need to provide implementation of all the declared
methods in the abstract class unless the subclass is also an abstract class; whereas subclasses use implements keyword to implement interfaces and should provide implementation for all the methods declared in the interface.
Abstract classes can have methods with implementation; whereas interfaces provide absolute abstraction and cannot have any method implementations.
Abstract classes can have constructors but interfaces cannot have constructors.
Abstract class have all the features of a normal java class except that they cannot be instantiated, the abstract keyword can be used to make a class abstract but interfaces are a completely different and can have only public stat final constants and method declarations.  Abstract class methods can have access modifiers as public, private, protected, static but interface methods are
implicitly public and abstract, no other access modifiers with interface methods can be used.
A subclass can only extend one abstract class, but it can implement multiple interfaces.
Abstract classes can extend other class and implement interfaces, but interface can only extend other interfaces.
 An abstract class can be run if it has a main() method, but an interface cannot because it cannot have main method implementation.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?Interface: no, we cannot instantiate an interface, it contains abstract methods which all need to be defined in
                                                                                        the class. To access the members of an interface we need to implement it and provide implementation to all its
                                                                                        abstract methods.
                                                                                        - Abstract class: no, we cannot instantiate an abstract class either, because it is abstract, which means it is not
                                                                                        complete, therefore it cannot be used. To implement features of an abstract class, we inherit subclasses from it and
                                                                                        create objects of the subclass. A subclass must override all abstract methods of an abstract class.
what is Access Specifier?Access modifiers are special keywords which are used to restrict the access of a class, constructor, data member and
                         method in another class.
                         Java supports four types of access modifiers:
                             Default - no keyword required.
                             Private
                             Protected
                             Public
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.OOP stand for Object-Oriented Programming, OOP concepts include abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance and
                                              polymorphism. Basically, the OOP concepts let us create working methods and variables, then re-use all or part of
                                              them without compromising security.
                                              1- Abstraction: abstraction is the process of hiding or covering certain details or the internal process and
                                              showing only essential information to the user.
                                              2- Encapsulation: encapsulation is data hiding. In encapsulation, the variables of a class will be hidden from other
                                              classes, and can be accessed only through the methods of their current class.
                                              To achieve encapsulation, the variables of a class need to be declared as private. And to modify and view the variables
                                              values, we need to provide public getter and setter methods.
                                              3- Inheritance: inheritance can be defined as the process where one class acquires the properties (methods and fields)
                                              of another class. The class which inherits the properties of other is known as subclass, derived class, or child
                                              class and the class whose properties are inherited is known as superclass, base class, or parent class.
                                              Inheritance is used when we have IS-A relationship between objects, and is implemented using extends keyword.
                                              4- Polymorphism: polymorphism is the ability of an object to take many forms. Polymorphism allows us to perform the
                                              same action in different ways. Polymorphism occurs when we have many classes that are related to each other
                                              by inheritance.
                                              Polymorphism is of two types:
                                                  - Compile-time polymorphism (method overloading)
                                                  - Runtime polymorphism(method overriding)
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?In Java, packages are the collection of related classes and interfaces which are bundled together. By using packages,
                                                              developers can easily modularize the code and optimize its reuse. Also, the code within the packages can be imported
                                                              by other classes and reused.
                                                              The use of packages help in avoiding name clashes, provide easier access control on the code, can contain hidden
                                                              classes which are not visible to the outer classes and only used within the package, and create a proper hierarchical
                                                              structure which makes it easier to locate the related classes.
                                                              java. lang package is imported by default.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.API stands for Application Programming Interface.
                                                        An API is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other. In
                                                        other words, an API is the messenger that delivers our request to the provider that we are
                                                        requesting it from and then delivers the response back to us.
                                                            - Log-in using GitHub;
                                                            - log-in using Discord;
                                                            - paid with PayPal when I purchased CodeLab.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?No, Java does not support multiple inheritance.
                                                               The problem with multiple inheritance is that if multiple parent classes have the same method name, then at runtime it
                                                               becomes difficult for the compiler to decide which method to execute from the child class. Therefore, Java does not
                                                               support multiple inheritance.

What is method overloading and when it happens?Overloading occurs when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but different parameters.
                                               Method Overloading is a compile-time polymorphism.
                                               In Method Overloading, Methods of the same class shares the same name but accepting:
                                                   - different number of parameters;
                                                   - different data types of parameters or
                                                   - different order of parameters (different data type and different order).
                                               Method Overloading is to “add” or “extend” more to the method’s behavior, the methods must have a different signature.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.an exception in java is an event that disrupts the normal flow of the program. It is an object which is thrown at runtime.
                                                exception handling however, is a mechanism to handle runtime errors such as ClassNotFoundException, IOException,
                                                SQLException, RemoteException, etc.
                                                The try-catch is the simplest method of handling exceptions. We put the code we want to run in the try block, and any
                                                exception that the code throws are caught by one or more catch blocks.
                                                This method will catch any type of Java exceptions that get thrown.
                                                We can also specify specific exceptions we would like to catch, this allows us to have dedicated code to recover from
                                                those errors and treat those conditions separately.
                                                In addition, any code that must be executed irrespective of occurrence of an exception is put in a finally block.
                                                A finally block is executed in all circumstances.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?The static keyword is a non-access modifier that is applicable for blocks, variables, methods, and classes.
                                                                               Static means unchanging or not changeable, which means we can change the value of it but the place in memory remains
                                                                               static. It is mainly used for memory management, once we re-assign a value to the original, the old value is garbage.
                                                                               Static is used when a particular piece of code is to be shared by all the instance methods, and it is also used to share
                                                                               the same variable or method of a given class.
                                                                               Static is also used for constant variables or methods that are the same for every instance of the class.
                                                                               The way the static keyword is used is by creating a static member, either a block, a variable, a method, or a nested
                                                                               class, and precede its declaration with the keyword static.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?The final keyword is a non-access specifier that is used to restrict a class, variable, and method.
                                                             If we initialize a variable with the final keyword, then we cannot modify its value.
                                                             If we declare a method as final, then it cannot be overridden by any subclasses.
                                                             And, if we declare a class as final, we restrict the other classes to inherit or extend it. In other words, the final
                                                             classes can not be inherited by other classes.
                                                             The final keyword is used when declaring an entity, which could be a variable, a class, or a method. Using the final
                                                             keyword prevents value from being modified. Technically, the final keyword is used when we want a variable to
                                                             always store the same value.
What is final, finally and finalize?final is a keyword and access modifier that is used to apply restrictions on a class, method or variable;
                                    finally is the block of Exception Handling to execute the important code whether the exception occurs or not. However,
                                    finalize is the method that is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.
What is a constructor ?A constructor refers to a block of code which is used to initialize an object. It must have the same name as
                       that of the class. Also, it has no return type, and it is automatically called when an object is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?Yes, a class can have multiple constructors, however, it is not possible to have 2 constructors with the same parameters.
                                             The technique of having multiple constructors in a class is known as constructor overloading.
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?The default constructor is called, because all classes have constructors, whether we define one or not, Java
                                                                                   automatically provides a default constructor that initializes all member variables to zero. However, once we define
                                                                                   our own constructor, the default constructor is no longer used.
What is "this" keyword in java ?The "this" keyword in Java is a reference to the object of the current class. Using it, you can refer a field, method or, constructor of a class. Referring to a field using "this" keyword
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?The super keyword in Java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object.:Usage of Java super Keyword super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable. super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method. super () can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor

What is JVM stand for ?JVM is the virtual machine that runs Java applications. The JVM makes Java platform-independence.

Is JVM platform independent?VM is platform dependent In Java, the main point here is that the JVM depends on the operating system
What version of java are you using?Java 11.0.14
What is JAR stand for ?JAR stands for "Java ARchive".
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?As JDK is responsible for prime development so it contains tools for developing, debugging and monitoring java applicationJVM does not include software development tools..
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?JRE = Java Virtual Machine (JVM) + Libraries to run the application and JVM = Only Runtime environment for executing the Java byte code.

What is compile time and run time?compile time is the programming life cycle phase that converts the source code into an executable file while runtime refers to the programming life cycle phase that runs the executables generated at compile time.
What is heap?heap is a chunk of memory which is shared among all threads
How java manage it's memory?Memory Management in Java JVM Memory Structure. JVM creates various run time data areas in a heap. These areas are used during the program Working of Garbage Collector.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?StringBuffer methods are synchronized, which means that only one thread can call the methods of a StringBuffer instance at a time.StringBuilder methods are not synchronized, therefore multiple threads can call the methods in StringBuilder class without being blocked. String is immutable. It is mutable.It is slow in terms of executing the concatenation task.

What is Singleton class?A singleton class is a class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory. This mechanism is used to persist the object.

when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?In the While loop, the condition is evaluated before the execution of the loop body; but in the Do..While loop, the
                                            condition is evaluated after the execution of the loop body.
                                            - The While loop will only loop while the condition is true; but the Do..While loop executes the statement is the code
                                            block at least once even if the condition fails.
What is Enum?enum is short for enumerates, which means specifically listed.
             An enum type is a special data type that represents a group of constants (unchangeable variables like final variables).
             To create an enum, we use the enum keyword separating the constants with a comma.
             enum values are static, italicized, and are in uppercase letters. Everything in an enum is final.
             an enum have attributes and methods, just like a class, the only difference is that enum constants are public, static
             and final.
What is Iterator?An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet. It is called an
                 "iterator" because "iterating" is the technical term for looping.
                 A Java Cursor is an Iterator, which is used to iterate or traverse or retrieve a Collection or Stream object’s
                 elements one by one.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?n Integer object will take more memory than an int, because an int is a data type that stores 32 bits and Integer is
                                                   an object which takes 128 bits (16 bytes) to store its int value.
Why is String Immutable in Java?In Java, string objects are immutable in nature which simply means once the String object is created its state cannot
                                be modified. Whenever you try to update the value of that object instead of updating the values of that particular
                                object, Java creates a new string object. Java String objects are immutable as String objects are generally cached
                                in the String pool. Since String literals are usually shared between multiple clients, action from one client might
                                affect the rest. It enhances security, caching, synchronization, and performance of the application.
What is constructor chaining in Java?In Java, constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another with respect to the current object.
                                     Constructor chaining is possible only through legacy where a subclass constructor is responsible for invoking the
                                     superclass’ constructor first. There could be any number of classes in the constructor chain.
                                     Constructor chaining can be achieved in two ways:
                                         - Within the same class using this()
                                         - From base class using super()
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?The only difference between serial and parallel garbage collector is that serial garbage collector uses a single thread
                                                             for garbage collection process while the parallel garbage collector uses multiple threads for the garbage collection.
                                                             Parallel garbage collector can use multiple CPUs to speed up the application throughp
What is JIT stands for?JIT stands for Just-In-Time compiler.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?Garbage collection is the process of reclaiming the unused memory space and making it available for the future instances.
                                               1- When an instance is created, it is first stored in the eden space in young generation of heap memory area.
                                               2- As part of the minor garbage collection cycle, objects that are live (which is still referenced) are moved to survivor
                                               space S0 from eden space. Similarly, the garbage collector scans S0 and moves the live instances to S1.
                                               3- Old or tenured generation is the second logical part of the heap memory. When the garbage collector does the minor
                                               Garbage collection cycle, instances that are still live in the S1 survivor space will be promoted to the old generation.
                                               Objects that are dereferenced in the S1 space is marked for eviction.
                                               4- Old generation is the last phase in the instance life cycle with respect to the Java garbage collection process.
                                               Major GC is the garbage collection process that scans the old generation part of the heap memory. If instances are
                                               dereferenced, then they are marked for eviction and if not they just continue to stay in the old generation.
                                               5- Once the instances are deleted from the heap memory the location becomes empty and becomes available for future
                                               allocation of live instances. These empty spaces will be fragmented across the memory area. For quicker allocation
                                               of the instance it should be defragmented. Based on the choice of the garbage collector, the reclaimed memory area
                                               will either be compacted on the go or will be done in a separate pass of the Garbage collection.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?No, Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out of memory.
                                                 The purpose of garbage collection is to identify and discard objects that are no longer needed by a Java program,
                                                 so that their resources can be reclaimed and reused. An object is subjected to garbage collection when it becomes
                                                 unreachable to the program in which it is used. If there is insufficient memory remaining to satisfy the amount
                                                 needed for a new object, then the garbage collector will attempt to reclaim as much memory as possible by releasing
                                                 memory used by objects to which there are no longer any references. However, if there's still insufficient memory,
                                                 an "out of memory" exception will be thrown.
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?Stack memory is used only by one thread of execution, when Heap memory is used by all parts of the application;
                                                          - Stack memory cannot be accessed by other threads, however, Objects stored in the heap are globally accessible;
                                                          - Stack follows LIFO manner to free memory, when heap uses memory management based on the generation associated with
                                                          each object;
                                                          - Stack will exist until the end of execution of the thread, but heap memory lives from the start till the end of
                                                          application execution;
                                                          - Stack memory contains local primitive and reference variables to objects in heap space, but whenever an object is
                                                          created, it will always be stored in the heap space.
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?Reflection is an API which is used to examine or modify the behavior of methods, classes, interfaces at runtime.
                                                The required classes for reflection are provided under java.lang.reflect package.
                                                Reflection gives us information about the class to which an object belongs and also the methods of that class which
                                                can be executed by using the object.
                                                Through reflection, we can invoke methods at runtime irrespective of the access specifier used with them.
                                                Reflection is used:
                                                    - to invoke a method if we know its name and parameter types;
                                                    - to access the private variables and methods of a class with the help of its class object and invoke the method
                                                    by using the object;
what is multithreading in java?Any application can have multiple processes (instances). Each of this process can be assigned either as a single thread
                               or multiple threads.
                               Multithreading in Java is a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously to maximum utilization of CPU.
                               Multithreaded applications execute two or more threads run concurrently, it is also known as Concurrency in Java.
                               Each thread runs parallel to each other. Mulitple threads do not allocate separate memory area, hence they save memory.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?:Synchronization in Java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.
What is Framework?frameworks are bodies of prewritten code used by developers to create apps using the Java programming language.

What are the testing Framework available in java?Selenium,Serenity,JUnit,TestNG,JBehave
Difference between jUnit and testNG?Junit is a java testing framework. It was based on Sunit, which was earlier used for Unit testing but then it was updated with java using Selenium Web Driver. Now Junit has become a standard to perform testing in Java.TestNG is also a Java based testing framework. It runs tests in classes so as to process them. TestNG is the advanced testing framework which overcomes the flaws of Junit.

What are the dependencies for this project?the dependencies for this project are the classes that uses some methods of another class.


what is dependency injection in java?Dependency injection is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside. dependency injection can
                                     be implemented in any programming language. The general concept behind dependency injection is called Inversion
                                     of Control. A Java class has a dependency on another class, if it uses an instance of this class.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?In static binding, static members of a class are bounded to memory at compile-time. Static binding uses method and
                                           constructor overloading.
                                           In dynamic binding, non-static members of a class are bounded to memory at runtime. Dynamic binding uses method
                                           overriding.











